EN L 97/ . C — CONCENTRATION OF FUNDING BY COUNTERPARTY Total and significant currencies Concentration of funding by counterparty Counterparty Name Code Type of code National code Counterparty Sector Residence of Counterparty Product Type Amount Received Weighted average original maturity Weighted average residual maturity Row ID 010 015 016 017 030 040 050 060 070 080 010 1. TOP TEN COUNTER PARTIES EACH GREATER THAN 1% OF TOTAL LIABIL ITIES 020 030 040 050 060 070 080 090 100 110 120 2. ALL OTHER FUNDING . Concentration of funding by counterparty (C ) 1. In order to collect information about the reporting institutions’ concentration of funding by counterparty in template C , institutions shall apply the instructions contained in this section. 2. Institutions shall report the top ten largest counterparties or a group of connected clients that is defined in point (39) of Article 4(1) of Regulation (EU) No 575/, where the funding obtained from each counterparty or group of connected clients exceeds a threshold of 1 % of total liabilities in rows 020 to 110 of section 1 of the template. The counterparty reported in item shall be the largest amount of funding received from one counterparty or group of connected clients which is above the 1 % threshold as at the reporting date. Item shall be the second largest above the 1 % threshold, and similarly with the remaining items. 3. Where a counterparty belongs to several groups of connected clients, it shall be reported only once in the group with the highest amount of funding. 4. Institutions shall report the total of all other remaining funding in section 2. 5. The totals of section 1 and section 2 shall equal an institution’s total funding as per its balance sheet reported under the financial reporting framework (FINREP). 6. For each counterparty, institutions shall report all of the columns 010 to 080.EN.  L 97/ 7. Where funding is obtained in more than one product type, the type reported shall be the product in which the largest proportion of funding was obtained. Identification of the underlying holder of securities may be undertaken on a best efforts basis. Where an institution has information concerning the holder of securities by virtue of its role as the custodian bank, it shall consider that amount for reporting the concentration of counterparties. Where there is no information available on the holder of the securities, the corresponding amount does not have to be reported. 8. Instructions concerning specific columns: Column Legal references and instructions 010 Counterparty Name The name of each counterparty from which funding obtained exceeds 1 % of total liabilities shall be recorded in column 010 in descending order, that is, in the order of the size of funding obtained. The name of the counterparty, whether a legal entity or a natural person, shall be reported. Where the counterparty is a legal entity, the counterparty name recorded shall be the full name of the legal entity from which the funding is derived including any references to the company type in accordance with the national company law. 015 Code This code is a row identifier and shall be unique for each counterparty. For institutions and insurance undertakings the code shall be the LEI code. For other entities the code shall be the LEI code, or if not available, a national code. The code shall be unique and used consistently across the templates and across time. The code shall always have a value. 016 Type of code The institutions shall identify the type of code reported in column 015 as a ‘LEI code’ or ‘Non-LEI code’. The type of code shall always be reported. 017 National code Institutions may additionally report the national code when they report LEI code as identifier as in the ‘Code’ column. 030 Counterparty Sector One sector shall be allocated to each counterparty on the basis of FINREP economic sector classes: (i) Central Banks; (ii) General Governments; (iii) Credit institutions; (iv) Other financial corporations; (v) Non-financial corporations; (vi) Households. For groups of connected clients, no sector shall be reported. 040 Residence of Counterparty ISO code -1-alpha-2 of the country of incorporation of the counterparty shall be used, including pseudo-ISO codes for international organisations, available in the most recent edition of the Eurostat’s ‘Balance of Payments Vademecum’. For groups of connected clients, no country shall be reported. 050 Product Type Counterparties reported in column 010 shall be assigned a product type, corresponding to the product issued in which the funding was received or in which the largest proportion of funding was received for mixed product types, using the following codes indicated in bold: — UWF (unsecured wholesale funding obtained from financial customers including interbank money);EN L 97/ . Column Legal references and instructions — UWNF (unsecured wholesale funding obtained from non-financial customers); — SFT (funding obtained from repurchase agreements as defined in point (82) of Article 4(1) of Regulation (EU) No 575/); — CB (funding obtained from covered bond issuance as defined in Article 129(4) or (5) of Regulation (EU) No 575/ or Article 52(4) of Directive /65/EC); — ABS (funding obtained from asset backed security issuance including asset backed commercial paper); — IGCP (funding obtained from intragroup counterparties); — OSWF (other secured wholesale funding); — OFP (other funding products, e.g. retail funding). 060 Amount Received The total amount of funding received from counterparties reported in column 010 shall be recorded in column 060 and institutions shall report carrying amounts therein. 070 Weighted average original maturity For the amount of funding received reported in column 060, from the counterparty reported in column 010, a weighted average original maturity (in days) for that funding shall be recorded in column 070. The weighted average original maturity shall be calculated as the average original maturity (in days) of the funding received from that counterparty. The average shall be size weighted, based on the size of different amounts of funding received in proportion to the total funding received from that counterparty. 080 Weighted average residual maturity For the amount of funding received reported in column 060, from the counterparty reported in column 010, a weighted average residual maturity, in days, for that funding shall be recorded in column 080. The weighted average residual maturity shall be calculated as the average maturity, in remaining days, of the funding received from that counterparty. The average shall be size weighted, based on the size of different amounts of funding received in proportion to the total funding received from that counterparty.EN.  L 97/ C — CONCENTRATION OF FUNDING BY PRODUCT TYPE Total and significant currencies Concentration of funding by product type Row ID Product Name Carrying amount received Amount covered by a Deposit Guarantee Scheme in accordance with Directive /49/EU or an equivalent deposit guarantee scheme in a third country Amount not covered by a Deposit Guarantee Scheme in accordance with Directive /49/EU or an equivalent deposit guarantee scheme in a third country Weighted average original maturity Weighted average residual maturity 010 020 030 040 050 PRODUCTS GREATER THAN 1% OF TOTAL LIABILITIES 010 1 RETAIL FUNDING 020 of which sight deposits 031 of which term deposits not withdrawable within the following 30 days 041 of which term deposits withdrawable within the following 30 days 070 Savings accounts 080 with a notice period for withdrawal greater than 30 days 090 without a notice period for withdrawal greater than 30 days 100 2 WHOLESALE FUNDING 110 Unsecured wholesale fundingEN L 97/ . Concentration of funding by product type Row ID Product Name Carrying amount received Amount covered by a Deposit Guarantee Scheme in accordance with Directive /49/EU or an equivalent deposit guarantee scheme in a third country Amount not covered by a Deposit Guarantee Scheme in accordance with Directive /49/EU or an equivalent deposit guarantee scheme in a third country Weighted average original maturity Weighted average residual maturity 010 020 030 040 050 120 of which loans and deposits from financial customers 130 of which loans and deposits from non financial customers 140 of which loans and deposits from intra-group entities 150 Secured wholesale funding 160 of which SFTs 170 of which covered bond issuance 180 of which asset backed security issuance 190 of which loans and deposits from intra-group entities  Concentration of funding by product type (C ) 1. This template seeks to collect information about the reporting institutions’ concentration of funding by product type, broken down into the funding types as specified in the following instructions regarding rows: Row Legal references and instructions 010 1. Retail funding Retail deposits as defined in Article 3(8) of Delegated Regulation (EU) /61EN.  L 97/ Row Legal references and instructions 020. of which sight deposits Of the retail funding of row 010 those that are sight deposits 031. of which term deposits not withdrawable within the following 30 days Of the retail funding of row 010 those that are term deposits not withdrawable within the following 30 days 041. of which term deposits withdrawable within the following 30 days Of the retail funding of row 010 those that are term deposits withdrawable within the following 30 days 070. of which savings accounts with either of the following characteristics: Of the retail funding of row 010 those that are savings accounts with either of the following characteristics: — with a notice period for withdrawal greater than 30 days; — without a notice period for withdrawal which is greater than 30 days. This row shall not be reported. 080. with a notice period for withdrawal greater than 30 days; Of the retail funding of row 010 those that are savings accounts with a notice period for withdrawal greater than 30 days 090. without a notice period for withdrawal which is greater than 30 days Of the retail funding of row 010 those that are savings accounts without a notice period for withdrawal which is greater than 30 days 100 2. Wholesale funding shall be considered to consist of any of the following: All counterparties other than those of retail deposits as defined in Article 3(8) of Delegated Regulation (EU) /61 This row shall not be reported. 110. unsecured wholesale funding All counterparties other than those of retail deposits as defined in Article 3(8) of Delegated Regulation (EU) /61 where the funding is unsecured 120. of which loans and deposits from financial customers Of the funding in row 110, those that consist of loans and deposits from financial customers Funding from central banks shall be excluded from this row. 130. of which loans and deposits from non-financial customers Of the funding in row 110, those that consist of loans and deposits from non-financial customers Funding from central banks shall be excluded from this row. 140. of which loans and deposits from intra-group entities Of the funding in row 110, those that consist of loans and deposits from intra-group entities Wholesale funding from intra-group entities shall only be reported on a solo or subconsolidated basis.EN L 97/ . Row Legal references and instructions 150. secured wholesale funding All counterparties other than those of retail deposits as defined in Article 3(8) of Delegated Regulation (EU) /61 where the funding is secured 160. of which Securities Financing Transactions Of the funding in row 150, that which is funding obtained from repurchase agreements as defined in point (82) of Article 4(1) of Regulation (EU) No 575/ 170. of which covered bond issuances Of the funding in row 150, that which is funding obtained from covered bond issuance as defined in Article 129(4) or (5) of Regulation (EU) No 575/ or Article 52(4) of Directive /65/EC 180. of which asset backed security issuances Of the funding in row 150, that which is funding obtained from asset backed security issuance including asset backed commercial paper 190. of which loans and deposits from intra-group entities Of the funding in row 150, that which is funding obtained from intra-group entities Wholesale funding from intra-group entities shall only be reported on a solo or subconsolidated basis. 2. For the purpose of completing this template, institutions shall report the total amount of funding received from each product type which exceeds a threshold of 1 % of total liabilities. 3. For each product type, institutions shall report all of the columns 010 to 050. 4. The 1 % of total liabilities threshold shall be used to determine those product types from which funding has been obtained in accordance with the following: (a) the 1 % of total liabilities threshold shall be applied for the product types referred to in all of the following rows: ‘Sight deposit’; ‘Term deposits not withdrawable within the following 30 days’; ‘Term deposits within the following 30 days’; ‘Saving accounts’; ‘Unsecured wholesale funding’; ‘Secured wholesale funding’; (b) with regard to the calculation of the 1 % of total liabilities threshold for row ‘Saving accounts’ the threshold shall apply on the sum of and ; (c) for rows 1. ‘Retail Funding’ and 2. ‘Wholesale Funding’ the 1 % of total liabilities threshold applies on aggregated level only. 5. The figures reported in rows 1. ‘Retail’, ‘Unsecured wholesale funding’, ‘Secured wholesale funding’ can include broader product types than the underlying ‘of which’ items. 6. Instructions concerning specific columns: Column Legal references and instructions 010 Carrying amount received Carrying amount of funding received for each of the product categories listed in the ‘Product name’ column shall be reported in column 010 of the template.EN.  L 97/ Column Legal references and instructions 020 Amount covered by a Deposit Guarantee Scheme in accordance with Directive /49/EU or an equivalent deposit guarantee scheme in a third country Of the total amount of funding received for each of the product categories listed in the ‘Product name’ column reported in column 010, the amount which is covered by a Deposit Guarantee Scheme in accordance with Directive /49/EU or an equivalent deposit guarantee scheme in a third country The amounts reported in column 020 and column 030, for each of the product categories listed in the ‘Product name’ column, shall be equal to the total amount received reported in column 010. 030 Amount not covered by a Deposit Guarantee Scheme in accordance with Directive /49/EU or an equivalent deposit guarantee scheme in a third country Of the total amount of funding received for each of the product categories listed in the ‘Product name’ column reported in column 010, the amount which is not covered by a Deposit Guarantee Scheme in accordance with Directive /49/EU or an equivalent deposit guarantee scheme in a third country The amounts reported in column 020 and column 030, for each of the product categories listed in the ‘Product name’ column, shall be equal to the total amount received reported in column 010. 040 Weighted average original maturity For the amount of funding received reported in column 010, from the product categories listed in the ‘Product name’ column, a weighted average original maturity (in days) for that funding shall be recorded. The weighted average original maturity shall be calculated as the average original maturity (in days) of the funding received for that product type. The average shall be size weighted, based on the size of different amounts of funding received in proportion to the total funding received from all issuances of that product type. 050 Weighted average residual maturity For the amount of funding received reported in column 010, from the product categories listed in the ‘Product name’ column, a weighted average residual maturity (in days) for that funding shall be recorded. The weighted average residual maturity shall be calculated as the average maturity (in days) left on the funding received for that product type. The average shall be size weighted, based on the size of different amounts of funding received in proportion, to the total funding received from all issuances of that product type.