EN L 97/ . C — CONCENTRATION OF FUNDING BY COUNTERPARTY Total and significant currencies Concentration of funding by counterparty Counterparty Name Code Type of code National code Counterparty Sector Residence of Counterparty Product Type Amount Received Weighted average original maturity Weighted average residual maturity Row ID 010 015 016 017 030 040 050 060 070 080 010 1. TOP TEN COUNTER PARTIES EACH GREATER THAN 1% OF TOTAL LIABIL ITIES 020 030 040 050 060 070 080 090 100 110 120 2. ALL OTHER FUNDING . Concentration of funding by counterparty (C ) 1. In order to collect information about the reporting institutions’ concentration of funding by counterparty in template C , institutions shall apply the instructions contained in this section. 2. Institutions shall report the top ten largest counterparties or a group of connected clients that is defined in point (39) of Article 4(1) of Regulation (EU) No 575/, where the funding obtained from each counterparty or group of connected clients exceeds a threshold of 1 % of total liabilities in rows 020 to 110 of section 1 of the template. The counterparty reported in item shall be the largest amount of funding received from one counterparty or group of connected clients which is above the 1 % threshold as at the reporting date. Item shall be the second largest above the 1 % threshold, and similarly with the remaining items. 3. Where a counterparty belongs to several groups of connected clients, it shall be reported only once in the group with the highest amount of funding. 4. Institutions shall report the total of all other remaining funding in section 2. 5. The totals of section 1 and section 2 shall equal an institution’s total funding as per its balance sheet reported under the financial reporting framework (FINREP). 6. For each counterparty, institutions shall report all of the columns 010 to 080.EN.  L 97/ 7. Where funding is obtained in more than one product type, the type reported shall be the product in which the largest proportion of funding was obtained. Identification of the underlying holder of securities may be undertaken on a best efforts basis. Where an institution has information concerning the holder of securities by virtue of its role as the custodian bank, it shall consider that amount for reporting the concentration of counterparties. Where there is no information available on the holder of the securities, the corresponding amount does not have to be reported. 8. Instructions concerning specific columns: Column Legal references and instructions 010 Counterparty Name The name of each counterparty from which funding obtained exceeds 1 % of total liabilities shall be recorded in column 010 in descending order, that is, in the order of the size of funding obtained. The name of the counterparty, whether a legal entity or a natural person, shall be reported. Where the counterparty is a legal entity, the counterparty name recorded shall be the full name of the legal entity from which the funding is derived including any references to the company type in accordance with the national company law. 015 Code This code is a row identifier and shall be unique for each counterparty. For institutions and insurance undertakings the code shall be the LEI code. For other entities the code shall be the LEI code, or if not available, a national code. The code shall be unique and used consistently across the templates and across time. The code shall always have a value. 016 Type of code The institutions shall identify the type of code reported in column 015 as a ‘LEI code’ or ‘Non-LEI code’. The type of code shall always be reported. 017 National code Institutions may additionally report the national code when they report LEI code as identifier as in the ‘Code’ column. 030 Counterparty Sector One sector shall be allocated to each counterparty on the basis of FINREP economic sector classes: (i) Central Banks; (ii) General Governments; (iii) Credit institutions; (iv) Other financial corporations; (v) Non-financial corporations; (vi) Households. For groups of connected clients, no sector shall be reported. 040 Residence of Counterparty ISO code -1-alpha-2 of the country of incorporation of the counterparty shall be used, including pseudo-ISO codes for international organisations, available in the most recent edition of the Eurostat’s ‘Balance of Payments Vademecum’. For groups of connected clients, no country shall be reported. 050 Product Type Counterparties reported in column 010 shall be assigned a product type, corresponding to the product issued in which the funding was received or in which the largest proportion of funding was received for mixed product types, using the following codes indicated in bold: — UWF (unsecured wholesale funding obtained from financial customers including interbank money);EN L 97/ . Column Legal references and instructions — UWNF (unsecured wholesale funding obtained from non-financial customers); — SFT (funding obtained from repurchase agreements as defined in point (82) of Article 4(1) of Regulation (EU) No 575/); — CB (funding obtained from covered bond issuance as defined in Article 129(4) or (5) of Regulation (EU) No 575/ or Article 52(4) of Directive /65/EC); — ABS (funding obtained from asset backed security issuance including asset backed commercial paper); — IGCP (funding obtained from intragroup counterparties); — OSWF (other secured wholesale funding); — OFP (other funding products, e.g. retail funding). 060 Amount Received The total amount of funding received from counterparties reported in column 010 shall be recorded in column 060 and institutions shall report carrying amounts therein. 070 Weighted average original maturity For the amount of funding received reported in column 060, from the counterparty reported in column 010, a weighted average original maturity (in days) for that funding shall be recorded in column 070. The weighted average original maturity shall be calculated as the average original maturity (in days) of the funding received from that counterparty. The average shall be size weighted, based on the size of different amounts of funding received in proportion to the total funding received from that counterparty. 080 Weighted average residual maturity For the amount of funding received reported in column 060, from the counterparty reported in column 010, a weighted average residual maturity, in days, for that funding shall be recorded in column 080. The weighted average residual maturity shall be calculated as the average maturity, in remaining days, of the funding received from that counterparty. The average shall be size weighted, based on the size of different amounts of funding received in proportion to the total funding received from that counterparty.