EN  . 3. Statement of comprehensive income References Current period Profit or. loss for the year IAS , IG6 Other comprehensive income IAS , IG6 Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss IAS 1.82A(a)(i) Tangible assets IAS , IG6; IAS - 40 Intangible assets IAS ; IAS -86 Actuarial gains or. losses on defined benefit pension plans IAS , IG6; IAS (c) Non-current assets and disposal groups held for sale IFRS Share of other recognised income and expense of entities accounted for using the equity method IAS 1.IG6; IAS Fair value changes of equity instruments measured at fair value through other comprehensive income IAS (d) Gains or. losses from hedge accounting of equity instruments at fair value through other comprehensive income, net IFRS ;.; IFRS 7.24C; Annex V.Part Fair value changes of equity instruments measured at fair value through other comprehensive income [hedged item] IFRS ;.(b); Annex V.Part Fair value changes of equity instruments measured at fair value through other comprehensive income [hedging instrument] IFRS ;.(a); Annex V.Part Fair value changes of financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss attributable to changes in their credit risk IAS (f) Income tax relating to items that will not be reclassified IAS (b); Annex V.Part Items that may be reclassified to profit or loss IAS 1.82A(a)(ii) Hedge of net investments in foreign operations [effective portion] IFRS (a); IFRS 7.24C(b)(i)(iv),.24E(a); Annex V.Part 2.58EN.   References Current period Valuation gains or. losses taken to equity IAS 1.IG6;IFRS (a); IFRS 7.24C(b)(i);.24E(a); Annex V.Part Transferred to profit or loss IAS , 92-95; IAS -49; IFRS ; Annex V.Part Other reclassifications Annex V.Part Foreign currency translation IAS , IG6; IAS (b) Translation gains or. losses taken to equity IAS , 38-47 Transferred to profit or loss IAS , 92-95; IAS -49 Other reclassifications Annex V.Part Cash flow hedges [effective portion] IAS , IG6; IAS (a)-96 IFRS (b); IFRS 7.24C(b)(i);.24E(a); Valuation gains or. losses taken to equity IAS (e),IG6; IFRS (a)(b)(d); IFRS 7.24C(b)(i),. 24E(a) Transferred to profit or loss IAS , 92-95, IG6; IFRS (d)(ii)(iii);IFRS 7.24C(b)(iv),.24E(a) Annex V.Part Transferred to initial carrying amount of hedged items IAS 1.IG6;IFRS (d)(i) Other reclassifications Annex V.Part Hedging instruments [not designated elements] IAS (g)(h);IFRS ,.;IFRS 7.24E(b)(c); Annex V.Part Valuation gains or. losses taken to equity IAS (g)(h);IFRS ,.;IFRS 7.24E (b)(c) Transferred to profit or loss IAS (g)(h);IFRS ,.;IFRS 7.24E(b)(c); Annex V.Part Other reclassifications Annex V.Part 2.65EN  . References Current period Debt instruments at fair value through other comprehensive income IAS (da), IG 6; IAS 1.IG6; IFRS ; Annex V.Part -63 Valuation gains or. losses taken to equity IFRS (a)(ii); IAS 1.IG6; IFRS Transferred to profit or loss IAS , IAS -95, IAS 1.IG6; IFRS ; Annex V.Part Other reclassifications IFRS 5.IG Example 12;IFRS ; Annex V.Part -65 Non-current assets and disposal groups held for sale IFRS Valuation gains or. losses taken to equity IFRS Transferred to profit or loss IAS , 92-95; IFRS Other reclassifications IFRS 5.IG Example 12 Share of other recognised income and expense of Investments in subsidaries, joint ventures and associates IAS 1.IG6; IAS Income tax relating to items that may be reclassified to profit or. loss IAS (b), IG6; Annex V.Part Total comprehensive income for the year IAS , 81A(a), IG6 Attributable to minority interest [Non-controlling interest] IAS (b)(i), IG6 Attributable to owners of the parent IAS (b)(ii), IG6EN.   3. Statement of comprehensive income References National GAAP compatible IFRS Current period Profit or. loss for the year IAS , IG6 Other comprehensive income IAS , IG6 Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss IAS 1.82A(a)(i) Tangible assets IAS , IG6; IAS -40 Intangible assets IAS ; IAS -86 Actuarial gains or. losses on defined benefit pension plans IAS , IG6; IAS (c) Non-current assets and disposal groups held for sale IFRS Share of other recognised income and expense of entities accounted for using the equity method IAS 1.IG6; IAS Fair value changes of equity instruments measured at fair value through other comprehensive income IAS (d) Gains or. losses from hedge accounting of equity instruments at fair value through other comprehensive income, net IFRS ;.; IFRS 7.24C; Annex V.Part Fair value changes of equity instruments measured at fair value through other comprehensive income [hedged item] IFRS ;.(b); Annex V.Part Fair value changes of equity instruments measured at fair value through other comprehensive income [hedging instrument] IFRS ;.(a); Annex V.Part Fair value changes of financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss attributable to changes in their credit risk IAS (f) Income tax relating to items that will not be reclassified IAS (b); Annex V.Part Items that may be reclassified to profit or loss IAS 1.82A(a)(ii) Hedge of net investments in foreign operations [effective portion] IFRS (a); IFRS 7.24C(b)(i)(iv),.24E(a); Annex V.Part Valuation gains or. losses taken to equity IAS 1.IG6;IFRS (a); IFRS 7.24C(b)(i);.24E(a); Annex V.Part 2.58EN  . References National GAAP compatible IFRS Current period Transferred to profit or loss IAS , 92-95; IAS -49; IFRS ; Annex V.Part Other reclassifications Annex V.Part Foreign currency translation IAS , IG6; IAS (b) Translation gains or. losses taken to equity IAS , 38-47 Transferred to profit or loss IAS , 92-95; IAS -49 Other reclassifications Annex V.Part Cash flow hedges [effective portion] IAS , IG6; IAS (a)-96 IFRS (b); IFRS 7.24C(b)(i);.24E(a); Valuation gains or. losses taken to equity IAS (e),IG6; IFRS (a)(b)(d); IFRS 7.24C(b)(i),. 24E(a) Transferred to profit or loss IAS , 92-95, IG6; IFRS (d)(ii)(iii);IFRS 7.24C(b)(iv),.24E(a) Annex V.Part Transferred to initial carrying amount of hedged items IAS 1.IG6;IFRS (d)(i) Other reclassifications Annex V.Part Hedging instruments [not designated elements] IAS (g)(h);IFRS ,.;IFRS 7.24E (b)(c); Annex V.Part Valuation gains or. losses taken to equity IAS (g)(h);IFRS ,.;IFRS 7.24E (b)(c) Transferred to profit or loss IAS (g)(h);IFRS ,.;IFRS 7.24E(b)(c); Annex V.Part Other reclassifications Annex V.Part Debt instruments at fair value through other comprehensive income IAS (da), IG 6; IAS 1.IG6; IFRS ; Annex V.Part -63EN.   References National GAAP compatible IFRS Current period Valuation gains or. losses taken to equity IFRS (a)(ii); IAS 1.IG6; IFRS Transferred to profit or loss IAS , IAS -95, IAS 1.IG6; IFRS ; Annex V.Part Other reclassifications IFRS 5.IG Example 12;IFRS ; Annex V.Part -65 Non-current assets and disposal groups held for sale IFRS Valuation gains or. losses taken to equity IFRS Transferred to profit or loss IAS , 92-95; IFRS Other reclassifications IFRS 5.IG Example 12 Share of other recognised income and expense of Investments in subsidaries, joint ventures and associates IAS 1.IG6; IAS Income tax relating to items that may be reclassified to profit or. loss IAS (b), IG6; Annex V.Part Total comprehensive income for the year IAS , 81A(a), IG6 Attributable to minority interest [Non-controlling interest] IAS (b)(i), IG6 Attributable to owners of the parent IAS (b)(ii), IG6  3. STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (3) 57. ‘Gains or. losses from hedge accounting of equity instruments at fair value through other comprehensive income’ shall include the change in the accumulated hedge ineffectiveness in fair value hedges in which the hedged item is an equity instrument measured at fair value through other comprehensive income. The change in accumulated hedge ineffectiveness reported in this row shall be the difference between the changes in the variation of the fair value of the equity instrument reported in ‘Fair value changes of equity instruments measured at fair value through other comprehensive income (hedged item)’ and the changes in the variation of the fair value of the hedging derivative reported in ‘Fair value changes of equity instruments measured at fair value through other comprehensive income (hedging instrument)’. 58. ‘Hedge of net investments in foreign operations (effective portion)’ shall include the change in the accumulated foreign currency translation reserve for the effective portion of both on-going and discontinued hedges of net investments in foreign operations. 59. For hedges of net investment in foreign operations and cash flow hedges, the respective amounts reported in ‘Transferred to profit or loss’ shall include amounts transferred because the hedged flows have occurred and are no longer expected to occur.EN.  L 97/ 60. ‘Hedging instruments (not designated elements)’ shall include changes in the accumulated changes in fair value of all of the following where they are not designated as a hedging component: (a) time value of options; (b) forward elements of forward contracts; (c) foreign exchange basis spread of financial instruments. 61. For options, the amounts reclassified to profit or loss and reported in ‘Transferred to profit or loss’ shall include reclassifications due to options that hedge a transaction-related hedged item and options that hedge a time-period related hedge item. 62. ‘Debt instruments at fair value through other comprehensive income’ shall include gains or losses on debt instruments measured at fair value through other comprehensive income other than impairment gains or losses and foreign exchange gains and losses, that shall respectively be reported in ‘(Impairment or. reversal of impairment on financial assets not measured at fair value through profit or loss)’ and in ‘Exchange differences (gain or. loss), net’ in template 2. ‘Transferred to profit or loss’ in particular shall include the transfer to profit or loss due to derecognition or reclassification into the fair value through profit or loss measurement category. 63. Where a financial asset is reclassified out of the amortised cost measurement category and into the fair value through other comprehensive income measurement category (IFRS ), the gains or losses arising due to the reclassification shall be reported in ‘Debt instruments at fair value through other comprehensive income’. 64. Where a financial asset is reclassified out of the fair value through other comprehensive income measurement category and into the fair value through profit or loss measurement category (IFRS ) or into the amortised cost measurement category (IFRS ), the reclassified cumulative gains and losses previously recognised in other comprehensive income shall be respectively reported in ‘Transferred to profit or loss’ and in ‘Other reclassifications’, adjusting in the latter case the carrying amount of the financial asset. 65. For all components of the other comprehensive income, ‘Other reclassifications’ shall include transfers other than the reclassifications from the other comprehensive income to the profit or loss or to the initial carrying amount of hedged items in the case of cash flow hedges. 66. Under IFRS ‘Income tax relating to items that will not be reclassified’ and ‘Income tax relating to items that may be reclassified to profit or. loss’ (IAS (b), IG6) shall be reported as separate line items.