The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (the Board) and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (the FDIC) (together, the Agencies) have reviewed the annual resolution plan submission (2015 Plan) that U.S. Bancorp submitted in December 2015, as required by section 165(d) of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, 12 U.S.C. ¤ 5365(d), and the jointly issued implementing regulation, 12 CFR Pali 243 (Board) and 12 CFR Pali 381 (FDIC) (the Resolution Plan Rule).The Agencies are jointly issuing this letter to clarify expectations for the resolution plan required to be submitted on or before December 31, 2017 (2017 Plan). U.S. Bancorp should comply with the requirements for its 2017 Plan by submitting information that is responsive to and consistent with this letter by December 31, 2017. Previously provided guidance continues to be applicable except to the extent that it is superseded or supplemented by the provisions of this letter.Pursuant to paragraph _.4(k) of the Resolution Plan Rule, the Agencies have determined that the executive summary and strategic analysis 1 of the 2017 Plan may be limited to any content that has changed from that of the 2015 Plan as a result of feedback provided in this letter. The 2017 Plan should incorporate by reference elements of the 2015 Plan that do not require any change or clarification as outlined in section _.4U) of the Resolution Plan Rule, with reference to relevant chapter and page(s) of the 2015 Plan. The 2017 Plan should also discuss material changes to U.S. Bancorp's resolution plan from the 2015 Plan; any actions taken by U.S. Bancorp since the filing of the 2015 Plan to improve the effectiveness of the resolution plan or remedy or otherwise mitigate any material weaknesses or impediments to effective and timely execution of the resolution plan; and U.S. Bancorp's strategy for ensuring that any insured depository institution subsidiary will be adequately protected from risks arising from the activities of any nonbank subsidiaries (other than those that are subsidiaries of the insured depository institution).2Stress Scenario: The 2017 Plan should assume the Dodd-Frank Act Stress Test (DF AST) severely adverse scenario for the first qualifier of 2017 is the domestic and international economic environment at the time of U.S. Bancorp's failure and throughout the resolution process.3 The 2017 Plan should also discuss any changes to the resolution strategy under the adverse and baseline scenarios to the extent that these scenarios reflect obstacles to a rapid and orderly resolution that are not captured under the severely adverse scenario.Shared and Outsourced Services: The 2017 Plan should provide an update on U.S. Bancorp's progress in addressing the risk that services provided to material entities by affiliates or third parties may be interrupted after U.S. Bancorp files for bankruptcy. The 2017 Plan also should provide an update on U.S. Bancorp's progress in addressing the risk that key employees may depart during its resolution.Financial Statements and Projections: The 2017 Plan should include pro forma balance sheets for each material entity at key junctures in the execution of the resolution strategy, beginning at December 31, 2016. Key junctures should include the beginning and end of the runway period. The proforma financial statements should clearly evidence the losses or other stress event(s) leading to the bankruptcy filing and any other key assumptions underlying the plan. If U.S. Bancorp's strategy includes a reorganization, the proforma financial statements should reflect any recapitalization or reorganization actions to implement the strategy.Runway Assumptions: Your 2015 Plan is predicated upon a "jump to default" assumption that allows U.S. Bancorp to enter resolution with a substantial amount of liquidity. This assumption could be viewed as simplifying some of the disruptions that could occur during a runway period and during resolution due to a shortage of liquidity. The 2017 Plan should take into account the likelihood that there would be some diminution of the firm's liquidity buffer in the days or weeks prior to filing for bankruptcy.Public Section: The 2017 Plan must be divided into a confidential section and a public section. The public section should be submitted as a separate document and should contain an executive summary of the resolution plan that describes the business of U.S. Bancorp and includes, to the extent material to an understanding of U.S. Bancorp, the eleven informational elements required by subsection _.8(c) of the Resolution Plan Rule. Additionally, either the public section or the confidential section must detail compliance with subsection _.3(e) of the Resolution Plan Rule.If you have any questions about the information communicated in this letter, please contact Alfonso Ventoso, Manager, Federal Reserve Board, at 202-475-6366 or alfonso.r.ventoso@frb.gov or Robert Connors, Associate Director, FDIC, at 202-898-3834 or rconnors@fclic.gov.Endnote:1 See Resolution Plan Rule subsections _.4(b) and _.4(c). 2 Id. 3 https://www.federalreserve.gov/newsevents/press/bcreg/bcreg20170203a5.pdf