The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (the Board) and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (the FDIC) (together, the Agencies) have reviewed the annual resolution plan submission (2016 Plan) that Citizens Financial Group, Inc. (Citizens Financial Group) submitted in December 2016, as required by section 165(d) of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, 12 U.S.C. § 5365(d), and the jointly issued implementing regulation, 12 CFR Part 243 (Board) and 12 CFR Part 381 (FDIC) (the Resolution Plan Rule).The Agencies are jointly issuing this letter to clarify expectations for the resolution plan required to be submitted on or before December 31, 2018 (2018 Plan). Citizens Financial Group must comply with the Resolution Plan Rule requirements and may do so for its 2018 Plan by submitting information that is responsive to and consistent with this letter by December 31, 2018.Pursuant to paragraph .4(k) of the Resolution Plan Rule, the Agencies have determined that the executive summary and strategic analysis1 of the 2018 Plan may be limited to any content that has changed from that of the 2016 Plan as a result of feedback provided in this letter. The 2018 Plan should incorporate by reference elements of the 2016 Plan that do not require any change or clarification as outlined in section .4(j) of the Resolution Plan Rule, with reference to relevant chapter and page(s) of the 2016 Plan. The 2018 Plan should also discuss material changes to Citizens Financial Group’s resolution plan from the 2016 Plan; any actions taken by Citizens Financial Group since the filing of the 2016 Plan to improve the effectiveness of the resolution plan or remedy or otherwise mitigate any material weaknesses or impediments to effective and timely execution of the resolution plan; and Citizens Financial Group’s strategy for ensuring that any insured depository institution subsidiary will be adequately protected from risks arising from the activities of any nonbank subsidiaries (other than those that are subsidiaries of the insured depository institution).2Stress Scenario: The 2018 Plan should assume the Dodd-Frank Act Stress Test (DFAST) severely adverse scenario for the fourth quarter of 2017 is the domestic and international economic environment at the time of Citizens Financial Group’s failure and throughout the resolution process.3 The 2018 Plan should also discuss any changes to the resolution strategy under the adverse and baseline scenarios to the extent that these scenarios reflect obstacles to a rapid and orderly resolution that are not captured under the severely adverse scenario.Operational: The 2016 Plan appears to depend upon contemporaneous receivership proceedings of Citizens Bank NA and Citizens Bank PA and the combination of these receiverships into one bridge bank. The 2018 Plan should support any assumption that (1) the two banks would fail simultaneously and (2) if the two banks fail simultaneously, interconnections and interdependencies between the two insured depository institutions would continue uninterrupted during resolution.Shared and Outsourced Services: The 2018 Plan should provide an update on any progress in addressing the risk that services provided to material entities by affiliates or third parties may be interrupted after Citizens Financial Group files for bankruptcy. The 2018 Plan also should provide an update on Citizens Financial Group’s progress in addressing the risk that key employees may depart during its resolution.Financial Statements and Projections: The 2018 Plan should include pro forma balance sheets for each material entity at key junctures in the execution of the resolution strategy, beginning at December 31, 2017. Key junctures should include the beginning and end of the runway period. The pro forma financial statements should clearly evidence the losses or other stress event(s) leading to the bankruptcy filing and any other key assumptions underlying the plan. if Citizens Financial Group’s strategy includes an internal reorganization, the pro forma financial statements should reflect any recapitalization or reorganization actions to implement the strategy.Public Section: The 2018 Plan must be divided into a confidential section and a public section. The public section should be submitted as a separate document and should contain an executive summary of the resolution plan that describes the business of Citizens Financial Group and includes, to the extent material to an understanding of Citizens Financial Group, the eleven informational elements required by subsection__.8(c) of the Resolution Plan Rule. Additionally, either the public section or the confidential section must detail compliance with subsection__.3(e) of the Resolution Plan Rule.If you have any questions about the information communicated in this letter, please contact Catherine Tilford, Assistant Director, Federal Reserve Board, at 202-452-5240 or catherine.a.tilford@frb.gov or Robert Connors, Associate Director, FDIC, at 202-898-3834 or rconnors@fdic.gov.Endnote:1 See Resolution Plan Rule subsections__.4(b) and__.4(c). 2 Id. 3 https://www.federalreserve.gov/newsevents/press/bcreg/bcreg20170203a5.pdf 